# QUERYING-DATA-IN-S3-WITH-AMAZON-ATHENA

> Amazon Athena is a serverless, interactive analytics service built on open-source
frameworks, supporting open-table and file formats.

> Athena provides a simplified, flexible way to analyze petabytes of data where it
lives.

> Analyze data or build applications from an Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
data lake and 30 data sources, including on-premises data sources or other cloud
systems using SQL or Python.

>  Athena is built on open-source Trino and Presto engines and Apache Spark
frameworks, with no provisioning or configuration effort required.
CREATE A CSV FILE (empdata.csv)
Use spreadsheet to create a new CSV file.
Sample data is shown below.

CREATE TABLE FORM EXISTING CSV FILE
1. Open the  Amazon S3 console .
2. Choose Create two Bucket.
3.  Choose a  DNS-compliant name  for your new bucket (bucket-src).
4.  Click the created bucket and Upload a new file [We can use any csv to upload
existing data into the database, here ‘empdata.csv’ is taken]
5. Choose Create Bucket.
6.  Choose a  DNS-compliant name  for your new bucket (bucket-dest).

7. Open the Amazon Athena console.
8. Select Workgroup --&gt; Create Workgroup (here, I am giving ‘angai-workgroup’
Under ‘Query result configuration’, browse and select the destination bucket

Select Query Editor. Click Create --&gt; Create a table from data source --&gt; s3 bucket
data

Select ‘create a database’ and give tale name as ‘empdb’.

Under dataset, For the location of input data set, click ‘Browse S3’ and select the csv
file uploaded inside the source bucket.

Select the File format as ‘CSV’

Under Column details
Add column by specifying name and datatype of that column.

Column Name Datatype
EID int
EMPFNAME string
EMPLNAME string
IPADDR string
DOJ date
JOB string
SALARY float

Click ‘Create Table’.

DDL command to create the table is now avaiable in the query editor.

Click the ‘Run’ button to execute the SQL query. Now the table is created and a
‘completed’ message is shown.

Select query can be used to display the table values.
ADd new Query in the query editor, and type
select * from &quot;empdb&quot;.&quot;emptable&quot; limit 10;

Execution of the above query displays the first 10 rows of the employee table, which
was created from CSV file.